
*******Kubernates Interview Questions_list 2********

1. How to achieve zero downtime 
Ans.
Currently we are using blue/green deployment strategy in which we create two separate,
but identical environments. One environment (blue) is running the current application 
version and one environment (green) is running the new application version. 
Using a blue/green deployment strategy increases application availability and reduces 
deployment risk by simplifying the rollback  process if a deployment fails. 
Once testing has been completed on the green environment,
live application traffic is directed to the green environment and the blue environment
is deprecated(meaning not recommended).


2. what is the deployment strategy you use ? 
Ans.
Same as Q1

3. explain how you deploy? process ? which new resources you create and how ?
Ans.
1.By using deplyoment yaml file we deploy.
2.In yml file above mention replicaset -basicaly used to create no. of pods 
3.We create services,namespace,daemonset,Persistent volumes etc

4. what are the changes that can be done in ingress which is in running?
Not covered
 
5. pod is deleted, again when you create the pod will be up , how to delete the particular pod properly?
Ans.
When pod is created using replicas in deployment file,
The pod even after getting deleted will occur again,
In those cases delete the deployment yml file itself,
then the pod wont be replicated.

6. Rollback deployment 
Ans.
if the current state of the Deployment is not stable. Each rollback updates the revision of the Deployment.
i.e Rollback deployment is used for the deployment to get into its previous version.

ex.kubectl rollout undo deploy/mydeployments

7. when to use role binding and cluster role binding?
Ans.
RoleBinding 
		- Role bindind as name indicates is used to bind roles to subjects (user, sa , groups)
usage: 
			If we need to define permissions inside a namesapce use Roles. 
			
		
ClusterRoleBinding 
		- Cluster Role bindind is used to bind cluster roles to subjects (user, sa , groups)
		
		- we can user rolebinding to bind clusterrole to a role of a particular namespace.
usage: 
			 
			If we need to define permissions at cluster wide use ClusterRole



8. explain one disadvantage of using defaults name space in k8s
Ans.
If we haven't created the namespaces in k8s then all the pods will be created in default 
namespace,So working,handling & managing with pods will be difficult.
Without organization of pods, the number of deployed services and objects 
can quickly get out of control, leading to performance, security, and other issues.

9. what do u know about services?
Ans.
Services are the network configurations in k8S.Services are the default load balancer in k8s.

There are three types
	1.Cluster Ip-This is the default service works at cluster level only,
				 where pods within the cluster can commnunicate with each other using ip address.
                 ClusterIP cannot be accessed outside cluster. 
	2.Nodeport- If the pods want to commnunicate with external traffice then they can't do with cluster Ip,
                To do that we use Nodeport.Automatically a ClusterIP will be created internally

	3.Loadbalancer-It is a tyoe of service which is used to link exernatl load balancer to the cluster.
	              - This type of serviec is used by cloud providers and this service is completely depends on cloud providers. 
	              - K8s now proides a better alternative for this service type which is called Ingress.
                				
10. what kind of cluster u have set up in ur organization? 

Ans.

Creating a cluster with kubeadm
Using kubeadm, you can create a minimum viable Kubernetes cluster that conforms
to best practices. In fact, you can use kubeadm to set up a cluster that will pass
the Kubernetes Conformance tests. 
kubeadm also supports other cluster lifecycle functions, 

such as bootstrap tokens and cluster upgrades.

The kubeadm tool is good if you need:

A simple way for you to try out Kubernetes, possibly for the first time.
A way for existing users to automate setting up a cluster and test their application.
A building block in other ecosystem and/or installer tools with a larger scope.
You can install and use kubeadm on various machines: your laptop, 
a set of cloud servers, a Raspberry Pi, and more. 
Whether you're deploying into the cloud or on-premises, 
you can integrate kubeadm into provisioning systems such as Ansible or Terraform.

Before you begin
To follow this guide, you need:

One or more machines running a deb/rpm-compatible Linux OS; for example: Ubuntu or CentOS.
2 GiB or more of RAM per machine--any less leaves little room for your apps.
At least 2 CPUs on the machine that you use as a control-plane node.
Full network connectivity among all machines in the cluster. 
You can use either a public or a private network.
You also need to use a version of kubeadm that can deploy the version of Kubernetes
that you want to use in your new cluster.

Kubernetes' version and version skew support policy applies to kubeadm as well as7
to Kubernetes overall. 
Check that policy to learn about what versions of Kubernetes and kubeadm are supported.
This page is written for Kubernetes v1.23.

The kubeadm tool's overall feature state is General Availability (GA). 
Some sub-features are still under active development. 
The implementation of creating the cluster may change slightly as the tool evolves, 
but the overall implementation should be pretty stable.


11. Imagine my pods are running in cluster. they are using http. 
I want to provide secure certification for those pods. How to add certification 
to those pods.Lets say i want to provide https for those pods. How to do it??

Ans.
May be using Init containers & sidecar??

12. Follow up. what is certification? Where exactly u will add certification? 
Ans.
For authentication of the website we need extra certifications like ssl certification,
By using Init containers we can initialise applications running inside pods with SSL certifications

13. What is CNI? what is the use of CNI?
Ans.
Container Network Interface (CNI) is a framework for dynamically configuring 
networking resources. It uses a group of libraries and specifications written in Go.
The plugin specification defines an interface for configuring the network, 
provisioning IP addresses, and maintaining connectivity with multiple hosts.

When used with Kubernetes, CNI can integrate smoothly with the kubelet to 
enable the use of an overlay or underlay network to automatically configure 
the network between pods. Overlay networks encapsulate network traffic using 
a virtual interface such as Virtual Extensible LAN (VXLAN). Underlay networks 
work at the physical level and comprise switches and routers.

Once you’ve specified the type of network configuration type,
the container runtime defines the network that containers join.
The runtime adds the interface to the container namespace via a call
to the CNI plugin and allocates the connected subnetwork routes via calls 

to the IP Address Management (IPAM) plugin.

CNI supports Kubernetes networking, and can also be used with other Kubernetes-based
container orchestration platforms such as OpenShift. 
CNI uses a software-defined networking (SDN) approach to unify container 
communication throughout clusters.


14. How do you enable communication between containers?
Ans.
Services are the defualt network configurations in K8s.
Containers reside inside the pods & containers within the pods 
can commnunicate via localhost with ports(they dont need ip address)

ex.

kind: Pod
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: testpod
spec:
  containers:
    - name: c00
      image: ubuntu
      command: ["/bin/bash", "-c", "while true; do echo Hello-Bhupinder; sleep 5 ; done"]
    - name: c01
      image: httpd
      ports:
       - containerPort: 80
In above example c00 & c01 can commnunicate each other.

ex. c00 will use the localhost:80 to see whether it can commnunicate with c01.

15. How many containers are running in your nodes?
Ans.
Depends on the application user is running.
Could be 100's of containers
16. Issues you face in your project in Kubernetes. How do you fix it?
Ans.
We can use following below commmands to troubleshoot issues in our project.
Describe command
logs command
events
explain

17. Headless services to run DB on kubernetes. Stateful sets in kubernetes.
Ans.
As statefullset stores data in server hence applications
like mysql are the examples of stateful sets.

18. configmaps n secrets?
Not covered
19. Kubernetes difference between deployment and daemonset and statefullset
Ans.
Deployment -object is used to create replicas ,pods 
Daemonset - Objects are used to run a copy of pod in each node so that it can gather
all the logs & send it to monitoring tools
Statefulset-statefullset stores data in server hence applications
like mysql are the examples of stateful sets.


20. Where do u store the secrets
Not covered
21. Blue green strategy and write the code for deployment of blue green in yaml or CLI?
Ans.blue/green deployment strategy in which we create two separate,
but identical environments. One environment (blue) is running the current application 
version and one environment (green) is running the new application version. 
Using a blue/green deployment strategy increases application availability and reduces 
deployment risk by simplifying the rollback  process if a deployment fails. 
Once testing has been completed on the green environment,
live application traffic is directed to the green environment and the blue environment
is deprecated(meaning not recommended).

yml (topic tobe covered) 


22. What are the security measures u take for your cluster?
Ans.
 -Keeping the version of Kubernetes up to date is one of the simplest
 things you can do to 4 improve your security. Kubernetes frequently 
 introduces new security features and provides security patches
	
	-Restrict network access to the control plane and nodes
	You should limit exposure of your cluster control plane and nodes to the internet
	- Creating a private cluster. 
	-Group authentication
CIS GKE Benchmark Recommend
-etc
(topics yet to be covered)

23. What is kubelet
Ans.
			Kubelet is a component in worker node in a cluster.
			It commnunicates the pod status to api server located in master node.
			It is an agent that runs on each and every worker node and it alsways watches the API 
			  server for pod related changes running in its worker node.
			- kubelet always make sure that the assigend pods to its worker node is running.
			- kubelet is the one which communicates with containarisation tool (docker daemon)
              through docker API (CRI). 	
			- work of kubelet is to create and run the pods. Always reports the status of the worker node 
			  and each pod to API server. (uses a tool call cAdvisor)
			- Kubelet is the one which runs probes.	
